**<img width="791" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104863800/183230189-40d510cd-e433-4dd3-8df7-b5e9e0e40923.png">
**

# Group Members:

Prerita Chawla,
Deeksha Rai,
Fabio Bauer,
Jasper Hilliard,
Rafe Sharif,
Mrugsen Gopnarayan,

### Mentors
Dr. Kohitij Kar,
Dr. Emeka Ogbuju,
Alish Dipani



# Presentation and Methodology
Check root directory for detailed methods
and full presentation

# Introduction

### Abstract

The human visual cortex has been associated with hierarchical perception
of various stimulus features. The first stop after relay from the
lateral geniculate nucleus, V1 is involved in low-level processing of
visual input from the retina. It is involved in depth and orientation
perception. And also has some role in color recognition. V2 is involved
in patterns and object orientation. V3 is interconnected with parietal
and temporal streams and has some neurons which are sensitive to motion.
Similarly, V4 is interconnected with the ventral stream. Some neurons in
V4 are involved in initial steps of object recognition.(Arcaro et.
al. 2015) In the context of comparing natural vs manmade stimuli, we
raise the question of their encoding in these different areas. Some
studies have probed for differences in fMRI response of natural scenes
vs. urban scenes. They observed a difference between responses for
natural and urban landscape images in some parts of the brain (Andrews
et. al. 2015, Gwang-Won Kim et. al. 2010). We employ the use of neural
networks to process images. Neural networks are far less sophisticated
processors, lacking the benefit of evolution. But some (such as CorNet)
are intended to mirror the brain's encoding style. Therefore, we expect
that the analysis of manmade/natural images in the CorNet-S model will
show no differences in correlation, and in this way they will act as a
control group, so that if there is a positive effect size in the
analysis of brain data, it can be considered as significant. To detect
this difference, we used the representational dissimilarity matrix (RDM)
approach to check if natural stimuli and artificial stimuli are
represented differently. This process would be repeated for each
counterpart ROI/layer. We employed representational similarity analysis
(RSA). In our analysis of the data, we observed many commonalities, but
also certain significant differences between the neural networks that
may hint at the brain encoding natural images differently from manmade
ones.

# Implications/conclusions

### Conclusions
The dissimilarity appeared to be uniform throughout all
the layers. For certain layers, such as V1 and V2, there was no
detectible difference in dissimilarity across categories. However, for
the LatOcc and V4 cortices, there was a measurable effect size
characterized by a bimodal distribution in the dissimilarities of the
response data.

Check root directory for more details on conclusions, plots and visuals.

### Limitations 
This study's lack of time series data, as well as the
RDM process removes a lot of detail from our conclusions.

Despite removal of many unsuitable images, there may be confounding
factors present that could explain some of the differences between
responses to manmade/natural images.

### Futher research 
The results of this brief study have affirmed our
expectation that RSM would be a useful tool for analyzing the brain's
encoding of two different categories of image data. There is opportunity
for a random control trial, for example a study where the stimuli are
tightly controlled for confounding variables, and the image contents
differ ONLY in that one group is natural and the other manmade.
Alternatively, this RSM analysis may be redone as a matched-pairs design
using the original Kay dataset, where each natural image is paired with
a manmade one of similar color and complexity. Any unpaired data would
be thrown out. Both of these alternative studies may yield a more
pronounced effect size and be less subject to confounding variables.**<img width="791" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104863800/183230189-40d510cd-e433-4dd3-8df7-b5e9e0e40923.png">
**

# Contributors (no order)

### Group Members: 
Prerita Chawla,
Deeksha Rai, 
Fabio Bauer,
Jasper Hilliard,
Rafe Sharif, 
Mrugsen Gopnarayan,

### Mentors
Alish Dipani,
Emeka Ogbuju,
Kohitij Kar

# Presentation and Methodology
Check root directory for detailed methods
and full presentation

# Introduction

### Abstract

The human visual cortex has been associated with hierarchical perception
of various stimulus features. The first stop after relay from the
lateral geniculate nucleus, V1 is involved in low-level processing of
visual input from the retina. It is involved in depth and orientation
perception. And also has some role in color recognition. V2 is involved
in patterns and object orientation. V3 is interconnected with parietal
and temporal streams and has some neurons which are sensitive to motion.
Similarly, V4 is interconnected with the ventral stream. Some neurons in
V4 are involved in initial steps of object recognition.(Arcaro et.
al. 2015) In the context of comparing natural vs manmade stimuli, we
raise the question of their encoding in these different areas. Some
studies have probed for differences in fMRI response of natural scenes
vs. urban scenes. They observed a difference between responses for
natural and urban landscape images in some parts of the brain (Andrews
et. al. 2015, Gwang-Won Kim et. al. 2010). We employ the use of neural
networks to process images. Neural networks are far less sophisticated
processors, lacking the benefit of evolution. But some (such as CorNet)
are intended to mirror the brain's encoding style. Therefore, we expect
that the analysis of manmade/natural images in the CorNet-S model will
show no differences in correlation, and in this way they will act as a
control group, so that if there is a positive effect size in the
analysis of brain data, it can be considered as significant. To detect
this difference, we used the representational dissimilarity matrix (RDM)
approach to check if natural stimuli and artificial stimuli are
represented differently. This process would be repeated for each
counterpart ROI/layer. We employed representational similarity analysis
(RSA). In our analysis of the data, we observed many commonalities, but
also certain significant differences between the neural networks that
may hint at the brain encoding natural images differently from manmade
ones.

# Implications/conclusions

### Conclusions
The dissimilarity appeared to be uniform throughout all
the layers. For certain layers, such as V1 and V2, there was no
detectible difference in dissimilarity across categories. However, for
the LatOcc and V4 cortices, there was a measurable effect size
characterized by a bimodal distribution in the dissimilarities of the
response data.

Check root directory for more details on conclusions, plots and visuals.

### Limitations 
This study's lack of time series data, as well as the
RDM process removes a lot of detail from our conclusions.

Despite removal of many unsuitable images, there may be confounding
factors present that could explain some of the differences between
responses to manmade/natural images.

### Futher research 
The results of this brief study have affirmed our
expectation that RSM would be a useful tool for analyzing the brain's
encoding of two different categories of image data. There is opportunity
for a random control trial, for example a study where the stimuli are
tightly controlled for confounding variables, and the image contents
differ ONLY in that one group is natural and the other manmade.
Alternatively, this RSM analysis may be redone as a matched-pairs design
using the original Kay dataset, where each natural image is paired with
a manmade one of similar color and complexity. Any unpaired data would
be thrown out. Both of these alternative studies may yield a more
pronounced effect size and be less subject to confounding variables.
